# Cryptography Algorithms Project

## About

This toy project serves as a practical tool for understanding the inner workings of various cryptography algorithms through hands-on implementation.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

- Python installed on your system.

### Installation

Clone the repository to your local machine.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/Elias-Yona/cryptography
cd cryptography
```

Ensure that Poetry is installed on your system. If not, you can install it by executing the following command in your terminal.

```shell
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

Use Poetry to build the project.

```shell
poetry build
```

After building the project, you can install it locally using Poetry with the following command.

```shell
poetry install
```

Alternatively, if you prefer using pip, you can install the project directly from the distribution files generated by the poetry build command.

```shell
pip install .
```

## Usage

To use the implemented algorithms, follow the instructions below.

### SHA-1 Hashing

To hash a message using the SHA-1 algorithm, execute the following command in your terminal:

```shell
sha1 "your message here"
```

Replace `"your message here"` with the actual text you wish to hash.

### HMAC Generation

To generate an HMAC for a message using a specified hash function, use the following command:

```shell
python main.py <key> <message> <digest>
```

Replace the placeholders as follows:

- `<key>`: The secret key used for the HMAC computation.
- `<message>`: The input message for which the HMAC will be computed.
- `<digest>`: The name of the hash function (e.g., `sha256`, `sha1`, `md5`).

#### Example:

```shell
python main.py YourSecretKey1234567890 "This is a test message" sha256
```

Expected output:

```plaintext
HMAC (hex): 1ca0369c1bc124d3889dfec78924c2fa329c34c708559057eee59040f878c1f6
```

## Running Tests

The project includes unit tests to verify the correctness of the implemented algorithms. To run these tests, use the following command:

```shell
python -m unittest discover -s tests
```

This command will automatically discover and run all test cases located within the `tests` directory.

